docs: respond to events (#1083)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/add-interactivity/respond-to-events.md

## Add event handlers

To add an event handler, first define a function and then pass it as a prop to the appropriate component. For example, here is a button that doesn’t do anything yet:

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def my_button():
    return ui.button("I don't do anything")

no_button_event = my_button()
```

You can make it print a message when a user clicks by following these three steps:

1. Declare a function called `handle_press`.
2. Implement the logic inside that function.
3. Add `on_press=handle_press` to the button component.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def my_button():
    def handle_press():
        print("You clicked me!")

    return ui.button("Click me", on_press=handle_press)

button_with_event = my_button()
```

You defined the `handle_press` function and then passed it as a prop to `ui.button`. `handle_press` is an event handler. Event handler functions:

- Are usually defined inside your components.
- Have names that start with handle, followed by the name of the event.

> By convention, it is common to name event handlers as handle followed by the event name. You’ll often see `on_press=handle_press`, `on_mouse_enter=handle_mouse_enter`, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By convention, it is common to name event handlers as "handle" followed by the event name. You’ll often see `on_press=handle_press`, `on_mouse_enter=handle_mouse_enter`, and so on.
```

Alternatively, you can define an event handler inline with a lambda in the component:

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def my_button():
    return ui.button("Click me", on_press=lambda: print("You clicked me!"))

button_with_inline_event = my_button()
```

These styles are equivalent. Inline event handlers are convenient for short functions.

## Functions must be passed, not called

Functions passed to event handlers must be passed, not called. For example:

> | passing a function (correct)       | calling a function (incorrect)                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Passing a function (correct)       | Calling a function (incorrect)                   |
```

| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `ui.button(on_press=handle_press)` | `ui.button("Click me", on_press=handle_press())` |

The difference is subtle. In the first example, the `handle_press` function is passed as an `on_press` event handler. This tells `deephaven.ui` to remember it and only call your function when the user clicks the button.

In the second example, the `()` at the end of `handle_press()` fires the function immediately during rendering, without any clicks.

When you write code inline, the same pitfall presents itself in a different way:

> | passing a function (correct)                 | calling a function (incorrect)                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Passing a function (correct)                 | Calling a function (incorrect)                            |
```

| -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ui.button(on_press=lambda: print("click"))` | `ui.button("Click me", on_press=on_press=print("click"))` |

> The first example uses lambda to create an anonymous function which is called every time the button is clicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first example uses lambda to create an anonymous function that is called every time the button is clicked.
```

The second example will execute the code every time the component renders.

> In both cases, what you want to pass is a function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, you should pass a function:
```

- `ui.button(on_press=handle_press)` passes the `handle_press` function.

> - `ui.button(on_press=lambda: print("click"))` pass the `lambda: print("click")` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ui.button(on_press=lambda: print("click"))` passes the `lambda: print("click")` function.
```

## Read props in event handlers

Because event handlers are declared inside of a component, they have access to the component’s props. Here is a button that, when clicked, prints its message prop:

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def custom_button(label, message):
    return ui.button(label, on_press=lambda: print(message))

@ui.component
def toolbar():
    return [
        custom_button("Play Movie", "Playing!"),
        custom_button("Upload Image", "Uploading!"),
    ]

read_props_example = toolbar()
```

This lets these two buttons show different messages. Try changing the messages passed to them.

## Pass event handlers as props

> Often you’ll want the parent component to specify a child’s event handler. Consider buttons: depending on where you’re using a Button component, you might want to execute a different function—perhaps one plays a movie and another uploads an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, you’ll want the parent component to specify a child’s event handler. Consider buttons: depending on where you’re using a button component, you might want to execute a different function — perhaps one plays a movie and another uploads an image.
```
